Let's look at our example Spring Data project to see how easy it is to add a
version to the URI. We'll see behavior before and after setting the basePath
property and we'll show how the @BasePathAwareController annotation affects
endpoints that are not managed by Spring Data.
Here's our sample application.
Recall that it is a Spring Boot app with an Employee
entity set up with an EmployeeRepository.
There's also a separate service that returns a schedule.
If we start up the application,
we can hit the different endpoints to see that it
defaults to port 8080/employees.
First, we'll see that the database is empty. We can see 0 elements.
Now let's add an employee.
We'll double check that it got added correctly.
We can see one element and that it has the
information we added, craig, developer.
We can also hit the schedule endpoint and see that the
schedule is Monday through Friday, 9‑5.
If you wanted to add a v1 at the base of the URI,
you simply open the application.properties file, then add
in the spring.data.rest.basePath property, then whatever
you want for the basePath.
In this case, we want /v1.
You'll also need to modify the ExampleService with the
@BasePathAwareController annotation.
Recall that other services outside of Spring Data REST aren't
managed the same, and without this annotation,
the request mapping would remain /schedule. By adding the
@BasePathAwareController annotation, the RequestMapping changes to /v1/schedule.
No modification is needed to the Employee entity class
or the EmployeeRepository interface.
Spring Data will automatically manage the new spring.data.rest.basePath.
Let's restart the application to pick up the changes.
If we try to hit the old URI, we'll get an error.
Notice how now the /employees path is not found.
Let's add the new base, /v1/employees, and try again.
Now we get a response from the employees endpoint. Recall
that we're using an in‑memory H2 database,
so every time we restart, there's no data.
Let's go ahead and add another employee, then check it out again.
Here we can see the employee was added with the correct
information. For endpoints managed outside of Spring Data,
there's some interesting behavior.
If I hit the plain schedule URI, it still actually works.
We can add the v1 base path, and that works too.
However, if we remove the @BasePathAwareController,
then restart the app, now if we try to hit the v1 mapping,
we get an error.
So don't forget the @BasePathAwareController on any endpoints that are not managed by Spring Data.